Work back in this lesson we're going to do an exercise so we're going to flip a coin and we're going
to simulate flipping a coin and we know it with a coin that see their heads or tails.
So we need to create a prompt asking the user to guess either heads or tails.
Then the next step is to evaluate that input from the prompt because we know that people aren't going
to do a zero or one.
They're actually entering heads or tails.
So to take that string value turn it into a number.
So knowing that it's either 0 or 1 and then we can use math not random which we saw earlier within the
Course as well and generate a random number so that we can simulate throwing the CT coin and returning
back into 0 0 1.
And then lastly we need to tell the user whether they were correct or not.
So let's let me show you how this is done.
And if you want to pause the video give it a try.
Write out the code and I'll show you the solution coming up so we had the opportunity to try this challenge.
So first thing that we wanted to do is we wanted to ask the question.
So this is just going to be a question.
And of course the variable that you use for the prompt you could use any one that you wanted.
So just do a heads or tails.
So next we need to make sure that we can turn this into a number.
So let's do something like result and we can use There's a number of ways we can do this.
So I'm going to use the ternary operator or check to see if.
So if question is equal to heads and if it is then we're going to return back a value of 1.
And actually it doesn't matter we can do 1 or 0.
So it wouldn't really matter the order of these.
So this is just basically turning in our question.
Our verbal question to the user into a numeric format and then we can use these numbers as a comparison
later on.
So now we've got a question.
It's turned into a numeric result and as next what we can do is that we can generate a random number
so this will be our random number.
And this has to be a number from 0 to 1.
There's only two numbers in here and we're really to use math floor so that we can bring the math value
down so round it down so that it will always be 0 or 1.
And now this math random number so random is the built in javascript method and we need to multiply
it by two.
So basically that's going to return a value of zero point whatever whatever whatever or one point whatever
whatever whatever.
And then the floor is allowing us to round it down.
So either a zero or one that's all it's going to be returned with that statement.
And then lastly you should do our comparison.
So we need to check to see if the value of result is equal to the value of a random number.
And if it is then let's do something in here.
And if it's not then we can do something else.
And then lastly we can put in our HMO and
we also we should create another variable in order to hold our So I'm going to call it H.M. again declared
up there.
And then all ready to do is aged out and maybe over here.
I started by just saying something went wrong.
So hopefully we never see this message.
But just in case something went wrong with our condition and we can just put that something went wrong.
So now we know that HMO now.
So take another look at this code so we know if the person guest heads and we're turning back heads
then we see that you guessed correctly
correctly
or else we do you we can say you were wrong
OK so now we're ready to give it a go.
So it's a refresher.
So heads or tails.
So let's try it heads I guess correctly.
And actually it's going to be a little bit hard to check.
We could of course we could go into the console here and this is where we can actually find out what
the value.
So believe I guess heads.
Let's see what let's see what the value of random number is.
And so we see them it's zero.
So in order for it to have been right we know that the random number should have been 1 and then when
we do our comparison between the results here and the random number that we would have been correct
but because it's a zero.
We know that we selected heads which evaluates to be one within the Turner statement there.
So we know that one does not equal to zero.
And we were wrong.
And then that's the output there.
So that's the solution to this challenge in the next lesson.
I show you a switch statement and we're going to build a magic 8 ball using the switch statement.
So that's coming up.